
# Chapter 4: Disentangling Resident vs Infiltrating Myeloid Cells by Employing a Fate Mapping Mouse Model of SCI
### *(not yet refactored)*

I am in the process of refactoring this repository to better reflect my abilities in the present day. As of yet, this chapter has not been refactored. Please see the timestamps to find my latest work.


### Chapter Introduction
As discussed in, 1.1.3 A Closer Look at the Immune Response to SCI, myeloid cells represent a diverse set of immune cells that respond to tissue damage and pathogens (Ransohoff & Cardona, 2010). Within the myeloid cell family there are distinct ontologies. Microglia and most CAMs arise from extra-embryonic yolk-sac during development and migrate to the neonatal brain before the formation of the BBB. They maintain their population throughout adulthood via local proliferation in the CNS parenchyma (Ginhoux et al., 2010; Goldmann et al., 2016). Microglia and CAMs are generally long-lived, with a lifespan of several years in humans (Reu et al., 2017) and over a year in mice (Tay et al., 2017). Conversely, infiltrating neutrophils and monocyte-derived myeloid cells, such as macrophages and dendritic cells, arise from HSC in the bone marrow and spleen (Milich et al., 2019). Under healthy conditions, these cells are very short lived (1-3 days) (Kezic & McMenamin, 2008). Under pathological conditions, such as SCI, these peripheral myeloid cells are honed to the injury site. In the case of monocyte-derived macrophages, after crossing the BBB or BSCB, they can take on the morphology of microglia, and upregulate canonical microglia markers (Bennett et al., 2018). Given that activated microglia downregulate their homeostatic signatures, these two cell populations can become practically indistinguishable (Butovsky et al., 2014; Dubbelaar et al., 2018).
In this chapter, I employ a fate mapping transgenic mouse line to unequivocally isolate Cx3cr1+ microglia and infiltrating myeloid cells from mouse models of contusion SCI. I collected samples at identical timepoints and used the same protocols and workflows that I established for the previous Cx3cr1 dataset (Chapter 3). This allowed me to ultimately integrate these datasets into a time-resolved myeloid cell atlas with less ambiguous annotations of cell ontogeny, which I then used for further analysis. I also generated a publicly available, interactive web app, where other researchers can explore and utilise this data. 
